if you want develop a thick upper back
at home you'd be wise to do inverted
rows guys pull-ups are my favorite back
exercise of all time but I don't think
that doing them exclusively is the way
to go maximize programming is about
eliminating potential weak links we got
to do it all in this case you can't
neglect the horizontal movement pattern
if you want to movement where you're
moving through space while providing
additional benefits inverted rules are
where it's at so first things first the
difficulty you probably don't need
weights for this it's all about
adjusting your torso angle basically how
elevated your feet are and where you're
grabbing on to the barbell or rinks if
you elevate your feet it's gonna become
a lot more challenging simple as that so
most of you even on the standard version
will struggle to get 10 20 reps which
makes it a perfect strengthen muscle
builder and if you strategically employ
right after your pull-ups even better
because now your reps gonna be that much
lower so difficulty is not a problem you
probably don't have to put weight plates
on your chest just saying you probably
won't have to add bands either this is
really a tough exercise by itself
especially if the range of motion is
somewhat decent now the requirement is
not that your body touches the bar nor
your hands reaching the gymnastic rings
I just want you to contract that upper
back pull your squeeze as hard as you
possibly can and you keep going man this
will give you tremendous carryover to
not only pull-ups believe it or not
because it is a bodyweight movement
there is carryover to certain extent if
you're strong enough but also the front
lever holding yourself in that position
absolutely beautiful and it's just a
great exercise to do for your overall
upper back stability especially if
you're doing a lot of push-ups
especially if you're doing a lot of
bench press weight etcetera this is the
best way to complement in fact we're
talking about specificity this is
literally it what better moment then
lying down on your back pulling yourself
up basically the reversal even grabbing
on to the exact position if you choose
to do that that's what I'm talking about
feasible effective and simple setup for
mostly washingtons video you can do this
on top you pull the bar by suspending
towels or even the pillow sheets you can
do this by grabbing onto a desk
elevating your feet on some chairs there
are many creative options the best way
is with gymnastic rinks or one of my
secret techniques doing it upside down a
power rack and there's the ways to
customize that too so there's lots of
variations to choose from
you can do it quickly you can do with
pause at the top rings barbell upside
down desk you name it
inverted rows will take care of back
thickness and I strongly recommend you
do them and the best part in all this is
that recovery is not compromised there's
no strain on the lower back which means
you have a body weight exercise that
puts you in the right intensities
perfect progression but no strain in the
area which can potentially cause
injuries in the area that can affect you
for your squat and deadlift performance
this means you can do inverted rows on
Monday squats and deadlifts on Tuesday
you'll be absolutely fine a per back
might be sore obviously but lower is
gonna be no problem cuz you're not doing
a heavy barbell row but you're getting
the same training effect now that's not
stimulus to fatigue I don't know what is
and for bigger guys especially you can
use that recovery edge for guys we're
just lifting very heavy in general you
can use that we do strain in the lower
back that's one of the reasons why I
transition into doing a lot of band
roles but I eventually realized that
this gets the job done too and it's fast
I just do it upside down a power rack or
using rings I'm just removing the bench
doing it that way you know so it's fast
it gets the job done you guys are gonna
love it start doing your rolls I don't
care what type of athlete you are you
can never go wrong with this time proven
exercise by the way this exercise would
do wonders for yoke especially if you
combine it what handstand push-up some
gymnastic rings man you're gonna have
some crazy chat the Velma if you do this
combination so that said give me
feedback down below let me know we have
a lot of experience with this exercise
let me know if you have special tips you
like to share and I'll talk in the next
video